# Small and Simple Summarizer

> Notice that in order to use this, you'll need both a YouTube API key and a Vertex AI API key. Former is required to fetch the transcripts, and latter to summarize them into articles.

## Scripts
* **build_index.py**: Reads all .md files in the "chapters" folder and creates an index based on individual tags (i.e. tag + all articles with the tag)
* **build_index_consolidated.py**: Includes semantic grouping generated with an LLM for game dev purposes. Replacing the TAG_MAP allows you to group tags together in the index.
* **channel.py**: _(Requires YouTube API key)_ Lists the videos on a channel. Notice that in some cases, you'll need to dig up the channel ID by looking into the source code. You can generally find if by searching for capitalized "UC"
* **chapterize.py**: _(Requires Vertex AI API key)_ Loops through transcripts in _transcripts_ folder (generated by _scrape.py_) and processes them with an LLM - currently gemini-2.5-pro-preview-05-06 due to it's capability to handle large contexts and follow instructions; and stores the results in _chapters_ folder.
* **fetch_single.py**: Fetches and prints the captions for a single video. The YouTube API can be flaky and sometimes doesn't return the captions. This uses a `youtube_transcript_api` package which doesn't require a YT API key.
* **fetch_via_list.py**: _(Requires YouTube API key)_ Takes in a list of URL + Title pairs (i.e. `https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=12345678 Random Video`) and attempts to fetch the captions. Essentially a retry mechanism.
* **get_tags.py**: This just loops through the chapters to collect tags and outputs them in alphabetical order. Convenient if you want to copy-paste them to LLM for grouping.
* **scrape.py**: _(Requires YouTube API key)_ Fetches transcripts for a given channel and stores them under _transcripts_ folder with a caption and source URL at the top.

## Usage
* Run `scrape.py` on your channel `python scrapy.py <YOUTUBE_CHANNEL_ID>`
* Run `chapterize.py`
* Run `build_index.py` or `build_index_consolidated.py` (latter might require changing the `TAG_MAP`

Rest of the scripts are there for convenience.
